Machine learning
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
For the journal, see Machine Learning (journal).
"Statistical learning" redirects here. For statistical learning in linguistics, see statistical learning in language acquisition.
Part of a series on
Machine learning
and data mining
Scatterplot featuring a linear support vector machine's decision boundary (dashed line)
Problems
Supervised learning
(classification • regression)
Clustering
Dimensionality reduction
Structured prediction
Anomaly detection
Artificial neural network
Reinforcement learning
Theory
Machine-learning venues
Related articles
vte
Part of a series on
Artificial intelligence
Anatomy-1751201 1280.png
Major goals
Artificial general intelligencePlanningComputer visionGeneral game playingKnowledge reasoningMachine learningNatural language processingRobotics
Approaches
Philosophy
History
Technology
Glossary
vte
Machine learning (ML) is the study of computer algorithms that can improve automatically through experience and by the use of data.[1] It is seen as a part of artificial intelligence.[2] Machine learning algorithms build a model based on sample data, known as training data, in order to make predictions or decisions without being explicitly programmed to do so.[3] Machine learning algorithms are used in a wide variety of applications, such as in medicine, email filtering, speech recognition, and computer vision, where it is difficult or unfeasible to develop conventional algorithms to perform the needed tasks.[4]

A subset of machine learning is closely related to computational statistics, which focuses on making predictions using computers; but not all machine learning is statistical learning. The study of mathematical optimization delivers methods, theory and application domains to the field of machine learning. Data mining is a related field of study, focusing on exploratory data analysis through unsupervised learning.[6][7] Some implementations of machine learning use data and neural networks in a way that mimics the working of a biological brain.[8][9] In its application across business problems, machine learning is also referred to as predictive analytics.


Contents
1	Overview
2	History and relationships to other fields
2.1	Artificial intelligence
2.2	Data mining
2.3	Optimization
2.4	Generalization
2.5	Statistics
3	Theory
4	Approaches
4.1	Supervised learning
4.2	Unsupervised learning
4.3	Semi-supervised learning
4.4	Reinforcement learning
4.5	Dimensionality reduction
4.6	Other types
4.7	Models
4.8	Training models
5	Applications
6	Limitations
6.1	Bias
6.2	Overfitting
6.3	Other limitations
7	Model assessments
8	Ethics
9	Hardware
9.1	Neuromorphic/Physical Neural Networks
10	Software
10.1	Free and open-source software
10.2	Proprietary software with free and open-source editions
10.3	Proprietary software
11	Journals
12	Conferences
13	See also
14	References
15	Sources
16	Further reading
17	External links
Overview
Learning algorithms work on the basis that strategies, algorithms, and inferences that worked well in the past are likely to continue working well in the future. These inferences can be obvious, such as "since the sun rose every morning for the last 10,000 days, it will probably rise tomorrow morning as well". They can be nuanced, such as "X% of families have geographically separate species with color variants, so there is a Y% chance that undiscovered black swans exist".[10]

Machine learning programs can perform tasks without being explicitly programmed to do so. It involves computers learning from data provided so that they carry out certain tasks. For simple tasks assigned to computers, it is possible to program algorithms telling the machine how to execute all steps required to solve the problem at hand; on the computer's part, no learning is needed. For more advanced tasks, it can be challenging for a human to manually create the needed algorithms. In practice, it can turn out to be more effective to help the machine develop its own algorithm, rather than having human programmers specify every needed step.[11]

The discipline of machine learning employs various approaches to teach computers to accomplish tasks where no fully satisfactory algorithm is available. In cases where vast numbers of potential answers exist, one approach is to label some of the correct answers as valid. This can then be used as training data for the computer to improve the algorithm(s) it uses to determine correct answers. For example, to train a system for the task of digital character recognition, the MNIST dataset of handwritten digits has often been used.[11]

History and relationships to other fields
See also: Timeline of machine learning
The term machine learning was coined in 1959 by Arthur Samuel, an American IBMer and pioneer in the field of computer gaming and artificial intelligence.[12][13] Also the synonym self-teaching computers was used in this time period.[14][15] A representative book of the machine learning research during the 1960s was the Nilsson's book on Learning Machines, dealing mostly with machine learning for pattern classification.[16] Interest related to pattern recognition continued into the 1970s, as described by Duda and Hart in 1973.[17] In 1981 a report was given on using teaching strategies so that a neural network learns to recognize 40 characters (26 letters, 10 digits, and 4 special symbols) from a computer terminal.[18]

Tom M. Mitchell provided a widely quoted, more formal definition of the algorithms studied in the machine learning field: "A computer program is said to learn from experience E with respect to some class of tasks T and performance measure P if its performance at tasks in T, as measured by P, improves with experience E."[19] This definition of the tasks in which machine learning is concerned offers a fundamentally operational definition rather than defining the field in cognitive terms. This follows Alan Turing's proposal in his paper "Computing Machinery and Intelligence", in which the question "Can machines think?" is replaced with the question "Can machines do what we (as thinking entities) can do?".[20]

Modern day machine learning has two objectives, one is to classify data based on models which have been developed, the other purpose is to make predictions for future outcomes based on these models. A hypothetical algorithm specific to classifying data may use computer vision of moles coupled with supervised learning in order to train it to classify the cancerous moles. Where as, a machine learning algorithm for stock trading may inform the trader of future potential predictions.[21]

Artificial intelligence

Machine learning as subfield of AI[22]

Part of machine learning as subfield of AI or part of AI as subfield of machine learning[23]
As a scientific endeavor, machine learning grew out of the quest for artificial intelligence. In the early days of AI as an academic discipline, some researchers were interested in having machines learn from data. They attempted to approach the problem with various symbolic methods, as well as what was then termed "neural networks"; these were mostly perceptrons and other models that were later found to be reinventions of the generalized linear models of statistics.[24] Probabilistic reasoning was also employed, especially in automated medical diagnosis.[25]: 488 

However, an increasing emphasis on the logical, knowledge-based approach caused a rift between AI and machine learning. Probabilistic systems were plagued by theoretical and practical problems of data acquisition and representation.[25]: 488  By 1980, expert systems had come to dominate AI, and statistics was out of favor.[26] Work on symbolic/knowledge-based learning did continue within AI, leading to inductive logic programming, but the more statistical line of research was now outside the field of AI proper, in pattern recognition and information retrieval.[25]: 708–710, 755  Neural networks research had been abandoned by AI and computer science around the same time. This line, too, was continued outside the AI/CS field, as "connectionism", by researchers from other disciplines including Hopfield, Rumelhart and Hinton. Their main success came in the mid-1980s with the reinvention of backpropagation.[25]: 25 

Machine learning (ML), reorganized as a separate field, started to flourish in the 1990s. The field changed its goal from achieving artificial intelligence to tackling solvable problems of a practical nature. It shifted focus away from the symbolic approaches it had inherited from AI, and toward methods and models borrowed from statistics and probability theory.[26]

The difference between ML and AI is frequently misunderstood. ML learns and predicts based on passive observations, whereas AI implies an agent interacting with the environment to learn and take actions that maximize its chance of successfully achieving its goals.[27]

As of 2020, many sources continue to assert that ML remains a subfield of AI.[28][29][26] Others have the view that not all ML is part of AI, but only an 'intelligent subset' of ML should be considered AI.[5][30][31]

Data mining
Machine learning and data mining often employ the same methods and overlap significantly, but while machine learning focuses on prediction, based on known properties learned from the training data, data mining focuses on the discovery of (previously) unknown properties in the data (this is the analysis step of knowledge discovery in databases). Data mining uses many machine learning methods, but with different goals; on the other hand, machine learning also employs data mining methods as "unsupervised learning" or as a preprocessing step to improve learner accuracy. Much of the confusion between these two research communities (which do often have separate conferences and separate journals, ECML PKDD being a major exception) comes from the basic assumptions they work with: in machine learning, performance is usually evaluated with respect to the ability to reproduce known knowledge, while in knowledge discovery and data mining (KDD) the key task is the discovery of previously unknown knowledge. Evaluated with respect to known knowledge, an uninformed (unsupervised) method will easily be outperformed by other supervised methods, while in a typical KDD task, supervised methods cannot be used due to the unavailability of training data.

Optimization
Machine learning also has intimate ties to optimization: many learning problems are formulated as minimization of some loss function on a training set of examples. Loss functions express the discrepancy between the predictions of the model being trained and the actual problem instances (for example, in classification, one wants to assign a label to instances, and models are trained to correctly predict the pre-assigned labels of a set of examples).[32]

Generalization
The difference between optimization and machine learning arises from the goal of generalization: while optimization algorithms can minimize the loss on a training set, machine learning is concerned with minimizing the loss on unseen samples. Characterizing the generalization of various learning algorithms is an active topic of current research, especially for deep learning algorithms.

Statistics
Machine learning and statistics are closely related fields in terms of methods, but distinct in their principal goal: statistics draws population inferences from a sample, while machine learning finds generalizable predictive patterns.[33] According to Michael I. Jordan, the ideas of machine learning, from methodological principles to theoretical tools, have had a long pre-history in statistics.[34] He also suggested the term data science as a placeholder to call the overall field.[34]

Leo Breiman distinguished two statistical modeling paradigms: data model and algorithmic model,[28] wherein "algorithmic model" means more or less the machine learning algorithms like Random forest.

Some statisticians have adopted methods from machine learning, leading to a combined field that they call statistical learning.[29]

Theory
Main articles: Computational learning theory and Statistical learning theory
A core objective of a learner is to generalize from its experience.[5][30] Generalization in this context is the ability of a learning machine to perform accurately on new, unseen examples/tasks after having experienced a learning data set. The training examples come from some generally unknown probability distribution (considered representative of the space of occurrences) and the learner has to build a general model about this space that enables it to produce sufficiently accurate predictions in new cases.

The computational analysis of machine learning algorithms and their performance is a branch of theoretical computer science known as computational learning theory. Because training sets are finite and the future is uncertain, learning theory usually does not yield guarantees of the performance of algorithms. Instead, probabilistic bounds on the performance are quite common. The bias–variance decomposition is one way to quantify generalization error.

For the best performance in the context of generalization, the complexity of the hypothesis should match the complexity of the function underlying the data. If the hypothesis is less complex than the function, then the model has under fitted the data. If the complexity of the model is increased in response, then the training error decreases. But if the hypothesis is too complex, then the model is subject to overfitting and generalization will be poorer.[31]

In addition to performance bounds, learning theorists study the time complexity and feasibility of learning. In computational learning theory, a computation is considered feasible if it can be done in polynomial time. There are two kinds of time complexity results. Positive results show that a certain class of functions can be learned in polynomial time. Negative results show that certain classes cannot be learned in polynomial time.

Approaches
Machine learning approaches are traditionally divided into three broad categories, depending on the nature of the "signal" or "feedback" available to the learning system:

Supervised learning: The computer is presented with example inputs and their desired outputs, given by a "teacher", and the goal is to learn a general rule that maps inputs to outputs.
Unsupervised learning: No labels are given to the learning algorithm, leaving it on its own to find structure in its input. Unsupervised learning can be a goal in itself (discovering hidden patterns in data) or a means towards an end (feature learning).
Reinforcement learning: A computer program interacts with a dynamic environment in which it must perform a certain goal (such as driving a vehicle or playing a game against an opponent). As it navigates its problem space, the program is provided feedback that's analogous to rewards, which it tries to maximize.[5]
Supervised learning
Main article: Supervised learning

A support-vector machine is a supervised learning model that divides the data into regions separated by a linear boundary. Here, the linear boundary divides the black circles from the white.
Supervised learning algorithms build a mathematical model of a set of data that contains both the inputs and the desired outputs.[35] The data is known as training data, and consists of a set of training examples. Each training example has one or more inputs and the desired output, also known as a supervisory signal. In the mathematical model, each training example is represented by an array or vector, sometimes called a feature vector, and the training data is represented by a matrix. Through iterative optimization of an objective function, supervised learning algorithms learn a function that can be used to predict the output associated with new inputs.[36] An optimal function will allow the algorithm to correctly determine the output for inputs that were not a part of the training data. An algorithm that improves the accuracy of its outputs or predictions over time is said to have learned to perform that task.[19]

Types of supervised learning algorithms include active learning, classification and regression.[27] Classification algorithms are used when the outputs are restricted to a limited set of values, and regression algorithms are used when the outputs may have any numerical value within a range. As an example, for a classification algorithm that filters emails, the input would be an incoming email, and the output would be the name of the folder in which to file the email.

Similarity learning is an area of supervised machine learning closely related to regression and classification, but the goal is to learn from examples using a similarity function that measures how similar or related two objects are. It has applications in ranking, recommendation systems, visual identity tracking, face verification, and speaker verification.

Unsupervised learning
Main article: Unsupervised learning
See also: Cluster analysis
Unsupervised learning algorithms take a set of data that contains only inputs, and find structure in the data, like grouping or clustering of data points. The algorithms, therefore, learn from test data that has not been labeled, classified or categorized. Instead of responding to feedback, unsupervised learning algorithms identify commonalities in the data and react based on the presence or absence of such commonalities in each new piece of data. A central application of unsupervised learning is in the field of density estimation in statistics, such as finding the probability density function.[37] Though unsupervised learning encompasses other domains involving summarizing and explaining data features.

Cluster analysis is the assignment of a set of observations into subsets (called clusters) so that observations within the same cluster are similar according to one or more predesignated criteria, while observations drawn from different clusters are dissimilar. Different clustering techniques make different assumptions on the structure of the data, often defined by some similarity metric and evaluated, for example, by internal compactness, or the similarity between members of the same cluster, and separation, the difference between clusters. Other methods are based on estimated density and graph connectivity.

Semi-supervised learning
Main article: Semi-supervised learning
Semi-supervised learning falls between unsupervised learning (without any labeled training data) and supervised learning (with completely labeled training data). Some of the training examples are missing training labels, yet many machine-learning researchers have found that unlabeled data, when used in conjunction with a small amount of labeled data, can produce a considerable improvement in learning accuracy.

In weakly supervised learning, the training labels are noisy, limited, or imprecise; however, these labels are often cheaper to obtain, resulting in larger effective training sets.[38]

Reinforcement learning
Main article: Reinforcement learning
Reinforcement learning is an area of machine learning concerned with how software agents ought to take actions in an environment so as to maximize some notion of cumulative reward. Due to its generality, the field is studied in many other disciplines, such as game theory, control theory, operations research, information theory, simulation-based optimization, multi-agent systems, swarm intelligence, statistics and genetic algorithms. In machine learning, the environment is typically represented as a Markov decision process (MDP). Many reinforcement learning algorithms use dynamic programming techniques.[39] Reinforcement learning algorithms do not assume knowledge of an exact mathematical model of the MDP, and are used when exact models are infeasible. Reinforcement learning algorithms are used in autonomous vehicles or in learning to play a game against a human opponent.

Dimensionality reduction
Dimensionality reduction is a process of reducing the number of random variables under consideration by obtaining a set of principal variables.[40] In other words, it is a process of reducing the dimension of the feature set, also called "number of features". Most of the dimensionality reduction techniques can be considered as either feature elimination or extraction. One of the popular methods of dimensionality reduction is principal component analysis (PCA). PCA involves changing higher-dimensional data (e.g., 3D) to a smaller space (e.g., 2D). This results in a smaller dimension of data (2D instead of 3D), while keeping all original variables in the model without changing the data.[41] The manifold hypothesis proposes that high-dimensional data sets lie along low-dimensional manifolds, and many dimensionality reduction techniques make this assumption, leading to the area of manifold learning and manifold regularization.

Other types
Other approaches have been developed which don't fit neatly into this three-fold categorisation, and sometimes more than one is used by the same machine learning system. For example topic modeling, meta learning.[42]

As of 2020, deep learning has become the dominant approach for much ongoing work in the field of machine learning.[11]

Self learning
Self-learning as a machine learning paradigm was introduced in 1982 along with a neural network capable of self-learning named crossbar adaptive array (CAA).[43] It is a learning with no external rewards and no external teacher advice. The CAA self-learning algorithm computes, in a crossbar fashion, both decisions about actions and emotions (feelings) about consequence situations. The system is driven by the interaction between cognition and emotion.[44] The self-learning algorithm updates a memory matrix W =||w(a,s)|| such that in each iteration executes the following machine learning routine:

 In situation s perform an action a;
 Receive consequence situation s’;
 Compute emotion of being in consequence situation v(s’);
 Update crossbar memory  w’(a,s) = w(a,s) + v(s’).
It is a system with only one input, situation s, and only one output, action (or behavior) a. There is neither a separate reinforcement input nor an advice input from the environment. The backpropagated value (secondary reinforcement) is the emotion toward the consequence situation. The CAA exists in two environments, one is the behavioral environment where it behaves, and the other is the genetic environment, wherefrom it initially and only once receives initial emotions about situations to be encountered in the behavioral environment. After receiving the genome (species) vector from the genetic environment, the CAA learns a goal-seeking behavior, in an environment that contains both desirable and undesirable situations.[45]

Feature learning
Main article: Feature learning
Several learning algorithms aim at discovering better representations of the inputs provided during training.[46] Classic examples include principal components analysis and cluster analysis. Feature learning algorithms, also called representation learning algorithms, often attempt to preserve the information in their input but also transform it in a way that makes it useful, often as a pre-processing step before performing classification or predictions. This technique allows reconstruction of the inputs coming from the unknown data-generating distribution, while not being necessarily faithful to configurations that are implausible under that distribution. This replaces manual feature engineering, and allows a machine to both learn the features and use them to perform a specific task.

Feature learning can be either supervised or unsupervised. In supervised feature learning, features are learned using labeled input data. Examples include artificial neural networks, multilayer perceptrons, and supervised dictionary learning. In unsupervised feature learning, features are learned with unlabeled input data. Examples include dictionary learning, independent component analysis, autoencoders, matrix factorization[47] and various forms of clustering.[48][49][50]

Manifold learning algorithms attempt to do so under the constraint that the learned representation is low-dimensional. Sparse coding algorithms attempt to do so under the constraint that the learned representation is sparse, meaning that the mathematical model has many zeros. Multilinear subspace learning algorithms aim to learn low-dimensional representations directly from tensor representations for multidimensional data, without reshaping them into higher-dimensional vectors.[51] Deep learning algorithms discover multiple levels of representation, or a hierarchy of features, with higher-level, more abstract features defined in terms of (or generating) lower-level features. It has been argued that an intelligent machine is one that learns a representation that disentangles the underlying factors of variation that explain the observed data.[52]

Feature learning is motivated by the fact that machine learning tasks such as classification often require input that is mathematically and computationally convenient to process. However, real-world data such as images, video, and sensory data has not yielded to attempts to algorithmically define specific features. An alternative is to discover such features or representations through examination, without relying on explicit algorithms.

Sparse dictionary learning
Main article: Sparse dictionary learning
Sparse dictionary learning is a feature learning method where a training example is represented as a linear combination of basis functions, and is assumed to be a sparse matrix. The method is strongly NP-hard and difficult to solve approximately.[53] A popular heuristic method for sparse dictionary learning is the K-SVD algorithm. Sparse dictionary learning has been applied in several contexts. In classification, the problem is to determine the class to which a previously unseen training example belongs. For a dictionary where each class has already been built, a new training example is associated with the class that is best sparsely represented by the corresponding dictionary. Sparse dictionary learning has also been applied in image de-noising. The key idea is that a clean image patch can be sparsely represented by an image dictionary, but the noise cannot.[54]

Anomaly detection
Main article: Anomaly detection
In data mining, anomaly detection, also known as outlier detection, is the identification of rare items, events or observations which raise suspicions by differing significantly from the majority of the data.[55] Typically, the anomalous items represent an issue such as bank fraud, a structural defect, medical problems or errors in a text. Anomalies are referred to as outliers, novelties, noise, deviations and exceptions.[56]

In particular, in the context of abuse and network intrusion detection, the interesting objects are often not rare objects, but unexpected bursts of inactivity. This pattern does not adhere to the common statistical definition of an outlier as a rare object, and many outlier detection methods (in particular, unsupervised algorithms) will fail on such data unless it has been aggregated appropriately. Instead, a cluster analysis algorithm may be able to detect the micro-clusters formed by these patterns.[57]

Three broad categories of anomaly detection techniques exist.[58] Unsupervised anomaly detection techniques detect anomalies in an unlabeled test data set under the assumption that the majority of the instances in the data set are normal, by looking for instances that seem to fit least to the remainder of the data set. Supervised anomaly detection techniques require a data set that has been labeled as "normal" and "abnormal" and involves training a classifier (the key difference to many other statistical classification problems is the inherently unbalanced nature of outlier detection). Semi-supervised anomaly detection techniques construct a model representing normal behavior from a given normal training data set and then test the likelihood of a test instance to be generated by the model.

Robot learning
Robot learning is inspired by a multitude of machine learning methods, starting from supervised learning, reinforcement learning,[59][60] and finally meta-learning (e.g. MAML).

Association rules
Main article: Association rule learning
See also: Inductive logic programming
Association rule learning is a rule-based machine learning method for discovering relationships between variables in large databases. It is intended to identify strong rules discovered in databases using some measure of "interestingness".[61]

Rule-based machine learning is a general term for any machine learning method that identifies, learns, or evolves "rules" to store, manipulate or apply knowledge. The defining characteristic of a rule-based machine learning algorithm is the identification and utilization of a set of relational rules that collectively represent the knowledge captured by the system. This is in contrast to other machine learning algorithms that commonly identify a singular model that can be universally applied to any instance in order to make a prediction.[62] Rule-based machine learning approaches include learning classifier systems, association rule learning, and artificial immune systems.

Based on the concept of strong rules, Rakesh Agrawal, Tomasz Imieliński and Arun Swami introduced association rules for discovering regularities between products in large-scale transaction data recorded by point-of-sale (POS) systems in supermarkets.[63] For example, the rule {\displaystyle \{\mathrm {onions,potatoes} \}\Rightarrow \{\mathrm {burger} \}}\{{\mathrm  {onions,potatoes}}\}\Rightarrow \{{\mathrm  {burger}}\} found in the sales data of a supermarket would indicate that if a customer buys onions and potatoes together, they are likely to also buy hamburger meat. Such information can be used as the basis for decisions about marketing activities such as promotional pricing or product placements. In addition to market basket analysis, association rules are employed today in application areas including Web usage mining, intrusion detection, continuous production, and bioinformatics. In contrast with sequence mining, association rule learning typically does not consider the order of items either within a transaction or across transactions.

Learning classifier systems (LCS) are a family of rule-based machine learning algorithms that combine a discovery component, typically a genetic algorithm, with a learning component, performing either supervised learning, reinforcement learning, or unsupervised learning. They seek to identify a set of context-dependent rules that collectively store and apply knowledge in a piecewise manner in order to make predictions.[64]

Inductive logic programming (ILP) is an approach to rule-learning using logic programming as a uniform representation for input examples, background knowledge, and hypotheses. Given an encoding of the known background knowledge and a set of examples represented as a logical database of facts, an ILP system will derive a hypothesized logic program that entails all positive and no negative examples. Inductive programming is a related field that considers any kind of programming language for representing hypotheses (and not only logic programming), such as functional programs.

Inductive logic programming is particularly useful in bioinformatics and natural language processing. Gordon Plotkin and Ehud Shapiro laid the initial theoretical foundation for inductive machine learning in a logical setting.[65][66][67] Shapiro built their first implementation (Model Inference System) in 1981: a Prolog program that inductively inferred logic programs from positive and negative examples.[68] The term inductive here refers to philosophical induction, suggesting a theory to explain observed facts, rather than mathematical induction, proving a property for all members of a well-ordered set.

Models
Performing machine learning involves creating a model, which is trained on some training data and then can process additional data to make predictions. Various types of models have been used and researched for machine learning systems.

Artificial neural networks
Main article: Artificial neural network
See also: Deep learning

An artificial neural network is an interconnected group of nodes, akin to the vast network of neurons in a brain. Here, each circular node represents an artificial neuron and an arrow represents a connection from the output of one artificial neuron to the input of another.
Artificial neural networks (ANNs), or connectionist systems, are computing systems vaguely inspired by the biological neural networks that constitute animal brains. Such systems "learn" to perform tasks by considering examples, generally without being programmed with any task-specific rules.

An ANN is a model based on a collection of connected units or nodes called "artificial neurons", which loosely model the neurons in a biological brain. Each connection, like the synapses in a biological brain, can transmit information, a "signal", from one artificial neuron to another. An artificial neuron that receives a signal can process it and then signal additional artificial neurons connected to it. In common ANN implementations, the signal at a connection between artificial neurons is a real number, and the output of each artificial neuron is computed by some non-linear function of the sum of its inputs. The connections between artificial neurons are called "edges". Artificial neurons and edges typically have a weight that adjusts as learning proceeds. The weight increases or decreases the strength of the signal at a connection. Artificial neurons may have a threshold such that the signal is only sent if the aggregate signal crosses that threshold. Typically, artificial neurons are aggregated into layers. Different layers may perform different kinds of transformations on their inputs. Signals travel from the first layer (the input layer) to the last layer (the output layer), possibly after traversing the layers multiple times.

The original goal of the ANN approach was to solve problems in the same way that a human brain would. However, over time, attention moved to performing specific tasks, leading to deviations from biology. Artificial neural networks have been used on a variety of tasks, including computer vision, speech recognition, machine translation, social network filtering, playing board and video games and medical diagnosis.

Deep learning consists of multiple hidden layers in an artificial neural network. This approach tries to model the way the human brain processes light and sound into vision and hearing. Some successful applications of deep learning are computer vision and speech recognition.[69]

Decision trees
Main article: Decision tree learning
Decision tree learning uses a decision tree as a predictive model to go from observations about an item (represented in the branches) to conclusions about the item's target value (represented in the leaves). It is one of the predictive modeling approaches used in statistics, data mining, and machine learning. Tree models where the target variable can take a discrete set of values are called classification trees; in these tree structures, leaves represent class labels and branches represent conjunctions of features that lead to those class labels. Decision trees where the target variable can take continuous values (typically real numbers) are called regression trees. In decision analysis, a decision tree can be used to visually and explicitly represent decisions and decision making. In data mining, a decision tree describes data, but the resulting classification tree can be an input for decision making.

Support-vector machines
Main article: Support-vector machine
Support-vector machines (SVMs), also known as support-vector networks, are a set of related supervised learning methods used for classification and regression. Given a set of training examples, each marked as belonging to one of two categories, an SVM training algorithm builds a model that predicts whether a new example falls into one category or the other.[70] An SVM training algorithm is a non-probabilistic, binary, linear classifier, although methods such as Platt scaling exist to use SVM in a probabilistic classification setting. In addition to performing linear classification, SVMs can efficiently perform a non-linear classification using what is called the kernel trick, implicitly mapping their inputs into high-dimensional feature spaces.


Illustration of linear regression on a data set.
Regression analysis
Main article: Regression analysis
Regression analysis encompasses a large variety of statistical methods to estimate the relationship between input variables and their associated features. Its most common form is linear regression, where a single line is drawn to best fit the given data according to a mathematical criterion such as ordinary least squares. The latter is often extended by regularization (mathematics) methods to mitigate overfitting and bias, as in ridge regression. When dealing with non-linear problems, go-to models include polynomial regression (for example, used for trendline fitting in Microsoft Excel[71]), logistic regression (often used in statistical classification) or even kernel regression, which introduces non-linearity by taking advantage of the kernel trick to implicitly map input variables to higher-dimensional space.

Bayesian networks
Main article: Bayesian network

A simple Bayesian network. Rain influences whether the sprinkler is activated, and both rain and the sprinkler influence whether the grass is wet.
A Bayesian network, belief network, or directed acyclic graphical model is a probabilistic graphical model that represents a set of random variables and their conditional independence with a directed acyclic graph (DAG). For example, a Bayesian network could represent the probabilistic relationships between diseases and symptoms. Given symptoms, the network can be used to compute the probabilities of the presence of various diseases. Efficient algorithms exist that perform inference and learning. Bayesian networks that model sequences of variables, like speech signals or protein sequences, are called dynamic Bayesian networks. Generalizations of Bayesian networks that can represent and solve decision problems under uncertainty are called influence diagrams.

Genetic algorithms
Main article: Genetic algorithm
A genetic algorithm (GA) is a search algorithm and heuristic technique that mimics the process of natural selection, using methods such as mutation and crossover to generate new genotypes in the hope of finding good solutions to a given problem. In machine learning, genetic algorithms were used in the 1980s and 1990s.[72][73] Conversely, machine learning techniques have been used to improve the performance of genetic and evolutionary algorithms.[74]

Training models
Usually, machine learning models require a lot of data in order for them to perform well. Usually, when training a machine learning model, one needs to collect a large, representative sample of data from a training set. Data from the training set can be as varied as a corpus of text, a collection of images, and data collected from individual users of a service. Overfitting is something to watch out for when training a machine learning model. Trained models derived from biased data can result in skewed or undesired predictions. Algorithmic bias is a potential result from data not fully prepared for training.

Federated learning
Main article: Federated learning
Federated learning is an adapted form of distributed artificial intelligence to training machine learning models that decentralizes the training process, allowing for users' privacy to be maintained by not needing to send their data to a centralized server. This also increases efficiency by decentralizing the training process to many devices. For example, Gboard uses federated machine learning to train search query prediction models on users' mobile phones without having to send individual searches back to Google.[75]

Applications
There are many applications for machine learning, including:

Agriculture
Anatomy
Adaptive website
Affective computing
Astronomy
Banking
Bioinformatics
Brain–machine interfaces
Cheminformatics
Citizen science
Computer networks
Computer vision
Credit-card fraud detection
Data quality
DNA sequence classification
Economics
Financial market analysis[76]
General game playing
Handwriting recognition
Information retrieval
Insurance
Internet fraud detection
Knowledge graph embedding
Linguistics
Machine learning control
Machine perception
Machine translation
Marketing
Medical diagnosis
Natural language processing
Natural language understanding
Online advertising
Optimization
Recommender systems
Robot locomotion
Search engines
Sentiment analysis
Sequence mining
Software engineering
Speech recognition
Structural health monitoring
Syntactic pattern recognition
Telecommunication
Theorem proving
Time-series forecasting
User behavior analytics
Behaviorism
In 2006, the media-services provider Netflix held the first "Netflix Prize" competition to find a program to better predict user preferences and improve the accuracy of its existing Cinematch movie recommendation algorithm by at least 10%. A joint team made up of researchers from AT&T Labs-Research in collaboration with the teams Big Chaos and Pragmatic Theory built an ensemble model to win the Grand Prize in 2009 for $1 million.[77] Shortly after the prize was awarded, Netflix realized that viewers' ratings were not the best indicators of their viewing patterns ("everything is a recommendation") and they changed their recommendation engine accordingly.[78] In 2010 The Wall Street Journal wrote about the firm Rebellion Research and their use of machine learning to predict the financial crisis.[79] In 2012, co-founder of Sun Microsystems, Vinod Khosla, predicted that 80% of medical doctors' jobs would be lost in the next two decades to automated machine learning medical diagnostic software.[80] In 2014, it was reported that a machine learning algorithm had been applied in the field of art history to study fine art paintings and that it may have revealed previously unrecognized influences among artists.[81] In 2019 Springer Nature published the first research book created using machine learning.[82] In 2020, machine learning technology was used to help make diagnoses and aid researchers in developing a cure for COVID-19.[83] Machine learning is recently applied to predict the green behavior of human-being.[84] Recently, machine learning technology is also applied to optimise smartphone's performance and thermal behaviour based on the user's interaction with the phone.[85][86]

Limitations
Although machine learning has been transformative in some fields, machine-learning programs often fail to deliver expected results.[87][88][89] Reasons for this are numerous: lack of (suitable) data, lack of access to the data, data bias, privacy problems, badly chosen tasks and algorithms, wrong tools and people, lack of resources, and evaluation problems.[90]

In 2018, a self-driving car from Uber failed to detect a pedestrian, who was killed after a collision.[91] Attempts to use machine learning in healthcare with the IBM Watson system failed to deliver even after years of time and billions of dollars invested.[92][93]

Machine learning has been used as a strategy to update the evidence related to systematic review and increased reviewer burden related to the growth of biomedical literature. While it has improved with training sets, it has not yet developed sufficiently to reduce the workload burden without limiting the necessary sensitivity for the findings research themselves.[94]

Bias
Main article: Algorithmic bias
Machine learning approaches in particular can suffer from different data biases. A machine learning system trained specifically on current customers may not be able to predict the needs of new customer groups that are not represented in the training data. When trained on man-made data, machine learning is likely to pick up the constitutional and unconscious biases already present in society.[95] Language models learned from data have been shown to contain human-like biases.[96][97] Machine learning systems used for criminal risk assessment have been found to be biased against black people.[98][99] In 2015, Google photos would often tag black people as gorillas,[100] and in 2018 this still was not well resolved, but Google reportedly was still using the workaround to remove all gorillas from the training data, and thus was not able to recognize real gorillas at all.[101] Similar issues with recognizing non-white people have been found in many other systems.[102] In 2016, Microsoft tested a chatbot that learned from Twitter, and it quickly picked up racist and sexist language.[103] Because of such challenges, the effective use of machine learning may take longer to be adopted in other domains.[104] Concern for fairness in machine learning, that is, reducing bias in machine learning and propelling its use for human good is increasingly expressed by artificial intelligence scientists, including Fei-Fei Li, who reminds engineers that "There’s nothing artificial about AI...It’s inspired by people, it’s created by people, and—most importantly—it impacts people. It is a powerful tool we are only just beginning to understand, and that is a profound responsibility.”[105]

Overfitting
Main article: Overfitting

The blue line could be an example of overfitting a linear function due to random noise.
Settling on a bad, overly complex theory gerrymandered to fit all the past training data is known as overfitting. Many systems attempt to reduce overfitting by rewarding a theory in accordance with how well it fits the data, but penalizing the theory in accordance with how complex the theory is.[10]

Other limitations
Learners can also disappoint by "learning the wrong lesson". A toy example is that an image classifier trained only on pictures of brown horses and black cats might conclude that all brown patches are likely to be horses.[106] A real-world example is that, unlike humans, current image classifiers often don't primarily make judgments from the spatial relationship between components of the picture, and they learn relationships between pixels that humans are oblivious to, but that still correlate with images of certain types of real objects. Modifying these patterns on a legitimate image can result in "adversarial" images that the system misclassifies.[107][108]

Adversarial vulnerabilities can also result in nonlinear systems, or from non-pattern perturbations. Some systems are so brittle that changing a single adversarial pixel predictably induces misclassification.

Model assessments
Classification of machine learning models can be validated by accuracy estimation techniques like the holdout method, which splits the data in a training and test set (conventionally 2/3 training set and 1/3 test set designation) and evaluates the performance of the training model on the test set. In comparison, the K-fold-cross-validation method randomly partitions the data into K subsets and then K experiments are performed each respectively considering 1 subset for evaluation and the remaining K-1 subsets for training the model. In addition to the holdout and cross-validation methods, bootstrap, which samples n instances with replacement from the dataset, can be used to assess model accuracy.[109]

In addition to overall accuracy, investigators frequently report sensitivity and specificity meaning True Positive Rate (TPR) and True Negative Rate (TNR) respectively. Similarly, investigators sometimes report the false positive rate (FPR) as well as the false negative rate (FNR). However, these rates are ratios that fail to reveal their numerators and denominators. The total operating characteristic (TOC) is an effective method to express a model's diagnostic ability. TOC shows the numerators and denominators of the previously mentioned rates, thus TOC provides more information than the commonly used receiver operating characteristic (ROC) and ROC's associated area under the curve (AUC).[110]

Ethics
See also: AI control problem and Toronto Declaration
Machine learning poses a host of ethical questions. Systems which are trained on datasets collected with biases may exhibit these biases upon use (algorithmic bias), thus digitizing cultural prejudices.[111] For example, in 1988, the UK's Commission for Racial Equality found that St. George's Medical School had been using a computer program trained from data of previous admissions staff and this program had denied nearly 60 candidates who were found to be either women or had non-European sounding names.[95] Using job hiring data from a firm with racist hiring policies may lead to a machine learning system duplicating the bias by scoring job applicants by similarity to previous successful applicants.[112][113] Responsible collection of data and documentation of algorithmic rules used by a system thus is a critical part of machine learning.

AI can be well-equipped to make decisions in technical fields, which rely heavily on data and historical information. These decisions rely on objectivity and logical reasoning.[114] Because human languages contain biases, machines trained on language corpora will necessarily also learn these biases.[115][116]

Other forms of ethical challenges, not related to personal biases, are seen in health care. There are concerns among health care professionals that these systems might not be designed in the public's interest but as income-generating machines.[117] This is especially true in the United States where there is a long-standing ethical dilemma of improving health care, but also increasing profits. For example, the algorithms could be designed to provide patients with unnecessary tests or medication in which the algorithm's proprietary owners hold stakes. There is potential for machine learning in health care to provide professionals an additional tool to diagnose, medicate, and plan recovery paths for patients, but this requires these biases to be mitigated.[118]

Hardware
Since the 2010s, advances in both machine learning algorithms and computer hardware have led to more efficient methods for training deep neural networks (a particular narrow subdomain of machine learning) that contain many layers of non-linear hidden units.[119] By 2019, graphic processing units (GPUs), often with AI-specific enhancements, had displaced CPUs as the dominant method of training large-scale commercial cloud AI.[120] OpenAI estimated the hardware compute used in the largest deep learning projects from AlexNet (2012) to AlphaZero (2017), and found a 300,000-fold increase in the amount of compute required, with a doubling-time trendline of 3.4 months.[121][122]

Neuromorphic/Physical Neural Networks
A physical neural network or Neuromorphic computer is a type of artificial neural network in which an electrically adjustable material is used to emulate the function of a neural synapse. "Physical" neural network is used to emphasize the reliance on physical hardware used to emulate neurons as opposed to software-based approaches. More generally the term is applicable to other artificial neural networks in which a memristor or other electrically adjustable resistance material is used to emulate a neural synapse.[123][124]


Software
Software suites containing a variety of machine learning algorithms include the following:

Free and open-source software
Caffe
Microsoft Cognitive Toolkit
Deeplearning4j
DeepSpeed
ELKI
Infer.NET
Keras
LightGBM
Mahout
Mallet
ML.NET
mlpack
MXNet
Neural Lab
OpenNN
Orange
pandas (software)
ROOT (TMVA with ROOT)
scikit-learn
Shogun
Spark MLlib
SystemML
TensorFlow
Torch / PyTorch
Weka / MOA
XGBoost
Yooreeka
Proprietary software with free and open-source editions
KNIME
RapidMiner
Proprietary software
Amazon Machine Learning
Angoss KnowledgeSTUDIO
Azure Machine Learning
Ayasdi
IBM Watson Studio
Google Prediction API
IBM SPSS Modeler
KXEN Modeler
LIONsolver
Mathematica
MATLAB
Neural Designer
NeuroSolutions
Oracle Data Mining
Oracle AI Platform Cloud Service
PolyAnalyst
RCASE
SAS Enterprise Miner
SequenceL
Splunk
STATISTICA Data Miner
Journals
Journal of Machine Learning Research
Machine Learning
Nature Machine Intelligence
Neural Computation
Conferences
Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL)
European Conference on Machine Learning and Principles and Practice of Knowledge Discovery in Databases (ECML PKDD)
International Conference on Machine Learning (ICML)
International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR)
International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS)
Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD)
Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS)
See also
Automated machine learning – Process of automating the application of machine learning
Big data – Information assets characterized by high volume, velocity, and variety
Differentiable programming – Programming paradigm
List of important publications in machine learning – Wikimedia list article
List of datasets for machine-learning research – Wikimedia list article
References
 Mitchell, Tom (1997). Machine Learning. New York: McGraw Hill. ISBN 0-07-042807-7. OCLC 36417892.
 Haney, Brian (2020-01-28). "AI Patents: A Data Driven Approach". Chicago-Kent Journal of Intellectual Property. Chicago, IL – via SSRN.
 The definition "without being explicitly programmed" is often attributed to Arthur Samuel, who coined the term "machine learning" in 1959, but the phrase is not found verbatim in this publication, and may be a paraphrase that appeared later. Confer "Paraphrasing Arthur Samuel (1959), the question is: How can computers learn to solve problems without being explicitly programmed?" in Koza, John R.; Bennett, Forrest H.; Andre, David; Keane, Martin A. (1996). Automated Design of Both the Topology and Sizing of Analog Electrical Circuits Using Genetic Programming. Artificial Intelligence in Design '96. Springer, Dordrecht. pp. 151–170. doi:10.1007/978-94-009-0279-4_9.
 Hu, J.; Niu, H.; Carrasco, J.; Lennox, B.; Arvin, F., "Voronoi-Based Multi-Robot Autonomous Exploration in Unknown Environments via Deep Reinforcement Learning" IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, 2020.
 Bishop, C. M. (2006), Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning, Springer, ISBN 978-0-387-31073-2
 Machine learning and pattern recognition "can be viewed as two facets of the same field."[5]: vii 
 Friedman, Jerome H. (1998). "Data Mining and Statistics: What's the connection?". Computing Science and Statistics. 29 (1): 3–9.
 "What is Machine Learning?". www.ibm.com. Retrieved 2021-08-15.
 Zhou, Victor (2019-12-20). "Machine Learning for Beginners: An Introduction to Neural Networks". Medium. Retrieved 2021-08-15.
 Domingos 2015, Chapter 6, Chapter 7.
 Ethem Alpaydin (2020). Introduction to Machine Learning (Fourth ed.). MIT. pp. xix, 1–3, 13–18. ISBN 978-0262043793.
 Samuel, Arthur (1959). "Some Studies in Machine Learning Using the Game of Checkers". IBM Journal of Research and Development. 3 (3): 210–229. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.368.2254. doi:10.1147/rd.33.0210.
 R. Kohavi and F. Provost, "Glossary of terms," Machine Learning, vol. 30, no. 2–3, pp. 271–274, 1998.
 Gerovitch, Slava (9 April 2015). "How the Computer Got Its Revenge on the Soviet Union". Nautilus. Retrieved 19 September 2021.
 Lindsay, Richard P. (1 September 1964). "The Impact of Automation On Public Administration". Western Political Quarterly. 17 (3): 78–81. doi:10.1177/106591296401700364. ISSN 0043-4078. S2CID 154021253. Retrieved 6 October 2021.
 Nilsson N. Learning Machines, McGraw Hill, 1965.
 Duda, R., Hart P. Pattern Recognition and Scene Analysis, Wiley Interscience, 1973
 S. Bozinovski "Teaching space: A representation concept for adaptive pattern classification" COINS Technical Report No. 81-28, Computer and Information Science Department, University of Massachusetts at Amherst, MA, 1981. https://web.cs.umass.edu/publication/docs/1981/UM-CS-1981-028.pdf
 Mitchell, T. (1997). Machine Learning. McGraw Hill. p. 2. ISBN 978-0-07-042807-2.
 Harnad, Stevan (2008), "The Annotation Game: On Turing (1950) on Computing, Machinery, and Intelligence", in Epstein, Robert; Peters, Grace (eds.), The Turing Test Sourcebook: Philosophical and Methodological Issues in the Quest for the Thinking Computer, Kluwer, pp. 23–66, ISBN 9781402067082
 "Introduction to AI Part 1". Edzion. 2020-12-08. Retrieved 2020-12-09.
 "AN EMPIRICAL SCIENCE RESEARCH ON BIOINFORMATICS IN MACHINE LEARNING – Journal". Retrieved 28 October 2020.
 "rasbt/stat453-deep-learning-ss20" (PDF). GitHub. 9 November 2021.
 Sarle, Warren (1994). "Neural Networks and statistical models". CiteSeerX 10.1.1.27.699.
 Russell, Stuart; Norvig, Peter (2003) [1995]. Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach (2nd ed.). Prentice Hall. ISBN 978-0137903955.
 Langley, Pat (2011). "The changing science of machine learning". Machine Learning. 82 (3): 275–279. doi:10.1007/s10994-011-5242-y.
 Alpaydin, Ethem (2010). Introduction to Machine Learning. MIT Press. p. 9. ISBN 978-0-262-01243-0.
 Cornell University Library (August 2001). "Breiman: Statistical Modeling: The Two Cultures (with comments and a rejoinder by the author)". Statistical Science. 16 (3). doi:10.1214/ss/1009213726. Retrieved 8 August 2015.
 Gareth James; Daniela Witten; Trevor Hastie; Robert Tibshirani (2013). An Introduction to Statistical Learning. Springer. p. vii.
 Mohri, Mehryar; Rostamizadeh, Afshin; Talwalkar, Ameet (2012). Foundations of Machine Learning. USA, Massachusetts: MIT Press. ISBN 9780262018258.
 Alpaydin, Ethem (2010). Introduction to Machine Learning. London: The MIT Press. ISBN 978-0-262-01243-0. Retrieved 4 February 2017.
 Le Roux, Nicolas; Bengio, Yoshua; Fitzgibbon, Andrew (2012). "Improving+First+and+Second-Order+Methods+by+Modeling+Uncertainty&pg=PA403 "Improving First and Second-Order Methods by Modeling Uncertainty". In Sra, Suvrit; Nowozin, Sebastian; Wright, Stephen J. (eds.). Optimization for Machine Learning. MIT Press. p. 404. ISBN 9780262016469.
 Bzdok, Danilo; Altman, Naomi; Krzywinski, Martin (2018). "Statistics versus Machine Learning". Nature Methods. 15 (4): 233–234. doi:10.1038/nmeth.4642. PMC 6082636. PMID 30100822.
 Michael I. Jordan (2014-09-10). "statistics and machine learning". reddit. Retrieved 2014-10-01.
 Russell, Stuart J.; Norvig, Peter (2010). Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach (Third ed.). Prentice Hall. ISBN 9780136042594.
 Mohri, Mehryar; Rostamizadeh, Afshin; Talwalkar, Ameet (2012). Foundations of Machine Learning. The MIT Press. ISBN 9780262018258.
 Jordan, Michael I.; Bishop, Christopher M. (2004). "Neural Networks". In Allen B. Tucker (ed.). Computer Science Handbook, Second Edition (Section VII: Intelligent Systems). Boca Raton, Florida: Chapman & Hall/CRC Press LLC. ISBN 978-1-58488-360-9.
 Alex Ratner; Stephen Bach; Paroma Varma; Chris. "Weak Supervision: The New Programming Paradigm for Machine Learning". hazyresearch.github.io. referencing work by many other members of Hazy Research. Retrieved 2019-06-06.
 van Otterlo, M.; Wiering, M. (2012). Reinforcement learning and markov decision processes. Reinforcement Learning. Adaptation, Learning, and Optimization. 12. pp. 3–42. doi:10.1007/978-3-642-27645-3_1. ISBN 978-3-642-27644-6.
 science.sciencemag.org/content/290/5500/2323
 towardsdatascience.com/all-machine-learning-models-explained-in-6-minutes-9fe30ff6776a
 Pavel Brazdil, Christophe Giraud Carrier, Carlos Soares, Ricardo Vilalta (2009). Metalearning: Applications to Data Mining (Fourth ed.). Springer Science+Business Media. pp. 10–14, passim. ISBN 978-3540732624.
 Bozinovski, S. (1982). "A self-learning system using secondary reinforcement". In Trappl, Robert (ed.). Cybernetics and Systems Research: Proceedings of the Sixth European Meeting on Cybernetics and Systems Research. North Holland. pp. 397–402. ISBN 978-0-444-86488-8.
 Bozinovski, Stevo (2014) "Modeling mechanisms of cognition-emotion interaction in artificial neural networks, since 1981." Procedia Computer Science p. 255-263
 Bozinovski, S. (2001) "Self-learning agents: A connectionist theory of emotion based on crossbar value judgment." Cybernetics and Systems 32(6) 637-667.
 Y. Bengio; A. Courville; P. Vincent (2013). "Representation Learning: A Review and New Perspectives". IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence. 35 (8): 1798–1828. arXiv:1206.5538. doi:10.1109/tpami.2013.50. PMID 23787338. S2CID 393948.
 Nathan Srebro; Jason D. M. Rennie; Tommi S. Jaakkola (2004). Maximum-Margin Matrix Factorization. NIPS.
 Coates, Adam; Lee, Honglak; Ng, Andrew Y. (2011). An analysis of single-layer networks in unsupervised feature learning (PDF). Int'l Conf. on AI and Statistics (AISTATS). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2017-08-13. Retrieved 2018-11-25.
 Csurka, Gabriella; Dance, Christopher C.; Fan, Lixin; Willamowski, Jutta; Bray, Cédric (2004). Visual categorization with bags of keypoints (PDF). ECCV Workshop on Statistical Learning in Computer Vision.
 Daniel Jurafsky; James H. Martin (2009). Speech and Language Processing. Pearson Education International. pp. 145–146.
 Lu, Haiping; Plataniotis, K.N.; Venetsanopoulos, A.N. (2011). "A Survey of Multilinear Subspace Learning for Tensor Data" (PDF). Pattern Recognition. 44 (7): 1540–1551. Bibcode:2011PatRe..44.1540L. doi:10.1016/j.patcog.2011.01.004.
 Yoshua Bengio (2009). Learning Deep Architectures for AI. Now Publishers Inc. pp. 1–3. ISBN 978-1-60198-294-0.
 Tillmann, A. M. (2015). "On the Computational Intractability of Exact and Approximate Dictionary Learning". IEEE Signal Processing Letters. 22 (1): 45–49. arXiv:1405.6664. Bibcode:2015ISPL...22...45T. doi:10.1109/LSP.2014.2345761. S2CID 13342762.
 Aharon, M, M Elad, and A Bruckstein. 2006. "K-SVD: An Algorithm for Designing Overcomplete Dictionaries for Sparse Representation." Signal Processing, IEEE Transactions on 54 (11): 4311–4322
 Zimek, Arthur; Schubert, Erich (2017), "Outlier Detection", Encyclopedia of Database Systems, Springer New York, pp. 1–5, doi:10.1007/978-1-4899-7993-3_80719-1, ISBN 9781489979933
 Hodge, V. J.; Austin, J. (2004). "A Survey of Outlier Detection Methodologies" (PDF). Artificial Intelligence Review. 22 (2): 85–126. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.318.4023. doi:10.1007/s10462-004-4304-y. S2CID 59941878.
 Dokas, Paul; Ertoz, Levent; Kumar, Vipin; Lazarevic, Aleksandar; Srivastava, Jaideep; Tan, Pang-Ning (2002). "Data mining for network intrusion detection" (PDF). Proceedings NSF Workshop on Next Generation Data Mining.
 Chandola, V.; Banerjee, A.; Kumar, V. (2009). "Anomaly detection: A survey". ACM Computing Surveys. 41 (3): 1–58. doi:10.1145/1541880.1541882. S2CID 207172599.
 "Learning efficient haptic shape exploration with a rigid tactile sensor array, S. Fleer, A. Moringen, R. Klatzky, H. Ritter". doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0226880.
 "Attention-Based Robot Learning of Haptic Interaction, A. Moringen, S. Fleer, G. Walck, H. Ritter" (PDF). doi:10.1007/978-3-030-58147-3_51. S2CID 220069113.
 Piatetsky-Shapiro, Gregory (1991), Discovery, analysis, and presentation of strong rules, in Piatetsky-Shapiro, Gregory; and Frawley, William J.; eds., Knowledge Discovery in Databases, AAAI/MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.
 Bassel, George W.; Glaab, Enrico; Marquez, Julietta; Holdsworth, Michael J.; Bacardit, Jaume (2011-09-01). "Functional Network Construction in Arabidopsis Using Rule-Based Machine Learning on Large-Scale Data Sets". The Plant Cell. 23 (9): 3101–3116. doi:10.1105/tpc.111.088153. ISSN 1532-298X. PMC 3203449. PMID 21896882.
 Agrawal, R.; Imieliński, T.; Swami, A. (1993). "Mining association rules between sets of items in large databases". Proceedings of the 1993 ACM SIGMOD international conference on Management of data - SIGMOD '93. p. 207. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.40.6984. doi:10.1145/170035.170072. ISBN 978-0897915922. S2CID 490415.
 Urbanowicz, Ryan J.; Moore, Jason H. (2009-09-22). "Learning Classifier Systems: A Complete Introduction, Review, and Roadmap". Journal of Artificial Evolution and Applications. 2009: 1–25. doi:10.1155/2009/736398. ISSN 1687-6229.
 Plotkin G.D. Automatic Methods of Inductive Inference, PhD thesis, University of Edinburgh, 1970.
 Shapiro, Ehud Y. Inductive inference of theories from facts, Research Report 192, Yale University, Department of Computer Science, 1981. Reprinted in J.-L. Lassez, G. Plotkin (Eds.), Computational Logic, The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, 1991, pp. 199–254.
 Shapiro, Ehud Y. (1983). Algorithmic program debugging. Cambridge, Mass: MIT Press. ISBN 0-262-19218-7
 Shapiro, Ehud Y. "The model inference system." Proceedings of the 7th international joint conference on Artificial intelligence-Volume 2. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc., 1981.
 Honglak Lee, Roger Grosse, Rajesh Ranganath, Andrew Y. Ng. "Convolutional Deep Belief Networks for Scalable Unsupervised Learning of Hierarchical Representations" Proceedings of the 26th Annual International Conference on Machine Learning, 2009.
 Cortes, Corinna; Vapnik, Vladimir N. (1995). "Support-vector networks". Machine Learning. 20 (3): 273–297. doi:10.1007/BF00994018.
 Stevenson, Christopher. "Tutorial: Polynomial Regression in Excel". facultystaff.richmond.edu. Retrieved 22 January 2017.
 Goldberg, David E.; Holland, John H. (1988). "Genetic algorithms and machine learning" (PDF). Machine Learning. 3 (2): 95–99. doi:10.1007/bf00113892. S2CID 35506513.
 Michie, D.; Spiegelhalter, D. J.; Taylor, C. C. (1994). "Machine Learning, Neural and Statistical Classification". Ellis Horwood Series in Artificial Intelligence. Bibcode:1994mlns.book.....M.
 Zhang, Jun; Zhan, Zhi-hui; Lin, Ying; Chen, Ni; Gong, Yue-jiao; Zhong, Jing-hui; Chung, Henry S.H.; Li, Yun; Shi, Yu-hui (2011). "Evolutionary Computation Meets Machine Learning: A Survey". Computational Intelligence Magazine. 6 (4): 68–75. doi:10.1109/mci.2011.942584. S2CID 6760276.
 "Federated Learning: Collaborative Machine Learning without Centralized Training Data". Google AI Blog. Retrieved 2019-06-08.
 Machine learning is included in the CFA Curriculum (discussion is top down); see: Kathleen DeRose and Christophe Le Lanno (2020). "Machine Learning".
 "BelKor Home Page" research.att.com
 "The Netflix Tech Blog: Netflix Recommendations: Beyond the 5 stars (Part 1)". 2012-04-06. Archived from the original on 31 May 2016. Retrieved 8 August 2015.
 Scott Patterson (13 July 2010). "Letting the Machines Decide". The Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 24 June 2018.
 Vinod Khosla (January 10, 2012). "Do We Need Doctors or Algorithms?". Tech Crunch.
 When A Machine Learning Algorithm Studied Fine Art Paintings, It Saw Things Art Historians Had Never Noticed, The Physics at ArXiv blog
 Vincent, James (2019-04-10). "The first AI-generated textbook shows what robot writers are actually good at". The Verge. Retrieved 2019-05-05.
 Vaishya, Raju; Javaid, Mohd; Khan, Ibrahim Haleem; Haleem, Abid (July 1, 2020). "Artificial Intelligence (AI) applications for COVID-19 pandemic". Diabetes & Metabolic Syndrome: Clinical Research & Reviews. 14 (4): 337–339. doi:10.1016/j.dsx.2020.04.012. PMC 7195043. PMID 32305024.
 Rezapouraghdam, Hamed; Akhshik, Arash; Ramkissoon, Haywantee (March 10, 2021). "Application of machine learning to predict visitors' green behavior in marine protected areas: evidence from Cyprus". Journal of Sustainable Tourism: 1–25. doi:10.1080/09669582.2021.1887878.
 Quested, Tony. "Smartphones get smarter with Essex innovation | Business Weekly | Technology News | Business news | Cambridge and the East of England". www.businessweekly.co.uk. Retrieved 2021-06-17.
 Williams, Rhiannon (2020-07-21). "Future smartphones 'will prolong their own battery life by monitoring owners' behaviour'". i (newspaper). Retrieved 2021-06-17.
 "Why Machine Learning Models Often Fail to Learn: QuickTake Q&A". Bloomberg.com. 2016-11-10. Archived from the original on 2017-03-20. Retrieved 2017-04-10.
 "The First Wave of Corporate AI Is Doomed to Fail". Harvard Business Review. 2017-04-18. Retrieved 2018-08-20.
 "Why the A.I. euphoria is doomed to fail". VentureBeat. 2016-09-18. Retrieved 2018-08-20.
 "9 Reasons why your machine learning project will fail". www.kdnuggets.com. Retrieved 2018-08-20.
 "Why Uber's self-driving car killed a pedestrian". The Economist. Retrieved 2018-08-20.
 "IBM's Watson recommended 'unsafe and incorrect' cancer treatments - STAT". STAT. 2018-07-25. Retrieved 2018-08-21.
 Hernandez, Daniela; Greenwald, Ted (2018-08-11). "IBM Has a Watson Dilemma". Wall Street Journal. ISSN 0099-9660. Retrieved 2018-08-21.
 Reddy, Shivani M.; Patel, Sheila; Weyrich, Meghan; Fenton, Joshua; Viswanathan, Meera (2020). "Comparison of a traditional systematic review approach with review-of-reviews and semi-automation as strategies to update the evidence". Systematic Reviews. 9 (1): 243. doi:10.1186/s13643-020-01450-2. ISSN 2046-4053. PMC 7574591. PMID 33076975.
 Garcia, Megan (2016). "Racist in the Machine". World Policy Journal. 33 (4): 111–117. doi:10.1215/07402775-3813015. ISSN 0740-2775. S2CID 151595343.
 Caliskan, Aylin; Bryson, Joanna J.; Narayanan, Arvind (2017-04-14). "Semantics derived automatically from language corpora contain human-like biases". Science. 356 (6334): 183–186. arXiv:1608.07187. Bibcode:2017Sci...356..183C. doi:10.1126/science.aal4230. ISSN 0036-8075. PMID 28408601. S2CID 23163324.
 Wang, Xinan; Dasgupta, Sanjoy (2016), Lee, D. D.; Sugiyama, M.; Luxburg, U. V.; Guyon, I. (eds.), "An algorithm for L1 nearest neighbor search via monotonic embedding" (PDF), Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 29, Curran Associates, Inc., pp. 983–991, retrieved 2018-08-20
 Julia Angwin; Jeff Larson; Lauren Kirchner; Surya Mattu (2016-05-23). "Machine Bias". ProPublica. Retrieved 2018-08-20.
 "Opinion | When an Algorithm Helps Send You to Prison". New York Times. Retrieved 2018-08-20.
 "Google apologises for racist blunder". BBC News. 2015-07-01. Retrieved 2018-08-20.
 "Google 'fixed' its racist algorithm by removing gorillas from its image-labeling tech". The Verge. Retrieved 2018-08-20.
 "Opinion | Artificial Intelligence's White Guy Problem". New York Times. Retrieved 2018-08-20.
 Metz, Rachel. "Why Microsoft's teen chatbot, Tay, said lots of awful things online". MIT Technology Review. Retrieved 2018-08-20.
 Simonite, Tom. "Microsoft says its racist chatbot illustrates how AI isn't adaptable enough to help most businesses". MIT Technology Review. Retrieved 2018-08-20.
 Hempel, Jessi (2018-11-13). "Fei-Fei Li's Quest to Make Machines Better for Humanity". Wired. ISSN 1059-1028. Retrieved 2019-02-17.
 Domingos 2015, p. 286.
 "Single pixel change fools AI programs". BBC News. 3 November 2017. Archived from the original on 22 March 2018. Retrieved 12 March 2018.
 "AI Has a Hallucination Problem That's Proving Tough to Fix". WIRED. 2018. Archived from the original on 12 March 2018. Retrieved 12 March 2018.
 Kohavi, Ron (1995). "A Study of Cross-Validation and Bootstrap for Accuracy Estimation and Model Selection" (PDF). International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence.
 Pontius, Robert Gilmore; Si, Kangping (2014). "The total operating characteristic to measure diagnostic ability for multiple thresholds". International Journal of Geographical Information Science. 28 (3): 570–583. doi:10.1080/13658816.2013.862623. S2CID 29204880.
 Bostrom, Nick (2011). "The Ethics of Artificial Intelligence" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 March 2016. Retrieved 11 April 2016.
 Edionwe, Tolulope. "The fight against racist algorithms". The Outline. Retrieved 17 November 2017.
 Jeffries, Adrianne. "Machine learning is racist because the internet is racist". The Outline. Retrieved 17 November 2017.
 Bostrom, Nick; Yudkowsky, Eliezer (2011). "THE ETHICS OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE" (PDF). Nick Bostrom.
 M.O.R. Prates, P.H.C. Avelar, L.C. Lamb (11 Mar 2019). "Assessing Gender Bias in Machine Translation -- A Case Study with Google Translate". arXiv:1809.02208 [cs.CY].
 Narayanan, Arvind (August 24, 2016). "Language necessarily contains human biases, and so will machines trained on language corpora". Freedom to Tinker.
 Char, Danton S.; Shah, Nigam H.; Magnus, David (2018-03-15). "Implementing Machine Learning in Health Care — Addressing Ethical Challenges". New England Journal of Medicine. 378 (11): 981–983. doi:10.1056/NEJMp1714229. ISSN 0028-4793. PMC 5962261. PMID 29539284.
 Char, D. S.; Shah, N. H.; Magnus, D. (2018). "Implementing Machine Learning in Health Care—Addressing Ethical Challenges". New England Journal of Medicine. 378 (11): 981–983. doi:10.1056/nejmp1714229. PMC 5962261. PMID 29539284.
 Research, AI (23 October 2015). "Deep Neural Networks for Acoustic Modeling in Speech Recognition". airesearch.com. Retrieved 23 October 2015.
 "GPUs Continue to Dominate the AI Accelerator Market for Now". InformationWeek. December 2019. Retrieved 11 June 2020.
 Ray, Tiernan (2019). "AI is changing the entire nature of compute". ZDNet. Retrieved 11 June 2020.
 "AI and Compute". OpenAI. 16 May 2018. Retrieved 11 June 2020.
 "Cornell & NTT's Physical Neural Networks: A "Radical Alternative for Implementing Deep Neural Networks" That Enables Arbitrary Physical Systems Training | Synced". 27 May 2021.
 "Nano-spaghetti to solve neural network power consumption".
Sources
Domingos, Pedro (September 22, 2015). The Master Algorithm: How the Quest for the Ultimate Learning Machine Will Remake Our World. Basic Books. ISBN 978-0465065707.
Nilsson, Nils (1998). Artificial Intelligence: A New Synthesis. Morgan Kaufmann. ISBN 978-1-55860-467-4. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 18 November 2019.
Russell, Stuart J.; Norvig, Peter (2003), Artificial Intelligence: A Modern Approach (2nd ed.), Upper Saddle River, New Jersey: Prentice Hall, ISBN 0-13-790395-2.
Poole, David; Mackworth, Alan; Goebel, Randy (1998). Computational Intelligence: A Logical Approach. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-510270-3. Archived from the original on 26 July 2020. Retrieved 22 August 2020.
Further reading
Nils J. Nilsson, Introduction to Machine Learning.
Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani and Jerome H. Friedman (2001). The Elements of Statistical Learning, Springer. ISBN 0-387-95284-5.
Pedro Domingos (September 2015), The Master Algorithm, Basic Books, ISBN 978-0-465-06570-7
Ian H. Witten and Eibe Frank (2011). Data Mining: Practical machine learning tools and techniques Morgan Kaufmann, 664pp., ISBN 978-0-12-374856-0.
Ethem Alpaydin (2004). Introduction to Machine Learning, MIT Press, ISBN 978-0-262-01243-0.
David J. C. MacKay. Information Theory, Inference, and Learning Algorithms Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2003. ISBN 0-521-64298-1
Richard O. Duda, Peter E. Hart, David G. Stork (2001) Pattern classification (2nd edition), Wiley, New York, ISBN 0-471-05669-3.
Christopher Bishop (1995). Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition, Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-853864-2.
Stuart Russell & Peter Norvig, (2009). Artificial Intelligence – A Modern Approach. Pearson, ISBN 9789332543515.
Ray Solomonoff, An Inductive Inference Machine, IRE Convention Record, Section on Information Theory, Part 2, pp., 56–62, 1957.
Ray Solomonoff, An Inductive Inference Machine A privately circulated report from the 1956 Dartmouth Summer Research Conference on AI.
Kevin P. Murphy (2021). Probabilistic Machine Learning: An Introduction, MIT Press.
External links
	Wikimedia Commons has media related to Machine learning.
 Quotations related to Machine learning at Wikiquote
International Machine Learning Society
mloss is an academic database of open-source machine learning software

Chatbot
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigationJump to search
For other uses, see Chatbot (disambiguation).

An virtual assistant chatbot
A chatbot (also known as a spy, conversational bot, chatterbot, interactive agent, conversational interface, Conversational AI, talkbot or artificial spy entity) is a computer program or an artificial intelligence which conducts a conversation via auditory or textual methods.[1] Such programs are often designed to convincingly simulate how a human would behave as a conversational partner, thereby passing the Turing test. Chatbots are typically used in dialog systems for various practical purposes including customer service or information acquisition. Some chatbots use sophisticated natural language processing systems, but many simpler ones scan for keywords within the input, then pull a reply with the most matching keywords, or the most similar wording pattern, from a database.

The term "ChatterBot" was originally coined by Michael Mauldin (creator of the first Verbot, Julia) in 1994 to describe these conversational programs.[2] Today, most chatbots are accessed via virtual assistants such as Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa, via messaging apps such as Facebook Messenger or WeChat, or via individual organizations' apps and websites.[3][4] Chatbots can be classified into usage categories such as conversational commerce (e-commerce via chat), analytics, communication, customer support, design, developer tools, education, entertainment, finance, food, games, health, HR, marketing, news, personal, productivity, shopping, social, sports, travel and utilities.[5]

Beyond chatbots, Conversational AI refers to the use of messaging apps, speech-based assistants and chatbots to automate communication and create personalized customer experiences at scale.[6]


Contents
1	Background
2	Development
3	Application
3.1	Messaging apps
3.1.1	As part of company apps and websites
3.2	Company internal platforms
3.3	Banking
3.4	Toys
3.5	Chatbots in Medicine and for Mental Health
4	Chatbot development platforms
5	Malicious use
6	Examples of malicious uses for Chatbots
7	Limitations of Chatbots
8	Chatbots killing jobs
9	See also
10	Citations
11	References
Background
In 1950, Alan Turing's famous article "Computing Machinery and Intelligence" was published,[7] which proposed what is now called the Turing test as a criterion of intelligence. This criterion depends on the ability of a computer program to impersonate a human in a real-time written conversation with a human judge, sufficiently well that the judge is unable to distinguish reliably—on the basis of the conversational content alone—between the program and a real human. The notoriety of Turing's proposed test stimulated great interest in Joseph Weizenbaum's program ELIZA, published in 1966, which seemed to be able to fool users into believing that they were conversing with a real human. However Weizenbaum himself did not claim that ELIZA was genuinely intelligent, and the introduction to his paper presented it more as a debunking exercise:

[In] artificial intelligence ... machines are made to behave in wondrous ways, often sufficient to dazzle even the most experienced observer. But once a particular program is unmasked, once its inner workings are explained ... its magic crumbles away; it stands revealed as a mere collection of procedures ... The observer says to himself "I could have written that". With that thought he moves the program in question from the shelf marked "intelligent", to that reserved for curios ... The object of this paper is to cause just such a re-evaluation of the program about to be "explained". Few programs ever needed it more.[8]

ELIZA's key method of operation (copied by chatbot designers ever since) involves the recognition of clue words or phrases in the input, and the output of corresponding pre-prepared or pre-programmed responses that can move the conversation forward in an apparently meaningful way (e.g. by responding to any input that contains the word 'MOTHER' with 'TELL ME MORE ABOUT YOUR FAMILY').[9] Thus an illusion of understanding is generated, even though the processing involved has been merely superficial. ELIZA showed that such an illusion is surprisingly easy to generate, because human judges are so ready to give the benefit of the doubt when conversational responses are capable of being interpreted as "intelligent".

Interface designers have come to appreciate that humans' readiness to interpret computer output as genuinely conversational—even when it is actually based on rather simple pattern-matching—can be exploited for useful purposes. Most people prefer to engage with programs that are human-like, and this gives chatbot-style techniques a potentially useful role in interactive systems that need to elicit information from users, as long as that information is relatively straightforward and falls into predictable categories. Thus, for example, online help systems can usefully employ chatbot techniques to identify the area of help that users require, potentially providing a "friendlier" interface than a more formal search or menu system. This sort of usage holds the prospect of moving chatbot technology from Weizenbaum's "shelf ... reserved for curios" to that marked "genuinely useful computational methods".

Development
The classic historic early chatbots are ELIZA (1966) and PARRY (1972).[10][11][12][13] More recent notable programs include A.L.I.C.E., Jabberwacky and D.U.D.E (Agence Nationale de la Recherche and CNRS 2006). While ELIZA and PARRY were used exclusively to simulate typed conversation, many chatbots now include functional features such as games and web searching abilities. In 1984, a book called The Policeman's Beard is Half Constructed was published, allegedly written by the chatbot Racter (though the program as released would not have been capable of doing so).[14]

One pertinent field of AI research is natural language processing. Usually, weak AI fields employ specialized software or programming languages created specifically for the narrow function required. For example, A.L.I.C.E. uses a markup language called AIML, which is specific to its function as a conversational agent, and has since been adopted by various other developers of, so called, Alicebots. Nevertheless, A.L.I.C.E. is still purely based on pattern matching techniques without any reasoning capabilities, the same technique ELIZA was using back in 1966. This is not strong AI, which would require sapience and logical reasoning abilities.

Jabberwacky learns new responses and context based on real-time user interactions, rather than being driven from a static database. Some more recent chatbots also combine real-time learning with evolutionary algorithms that optimise their ability to communicate based on each conversation held. Still, there is currently no general purpose conversational artificial intelligence, and some software developers focus on the practical aspect, information retrieval.

Chatbot competitions focus on the Turing test or more specific goals. Two such annual contests are the Loebner Prize and The Chatterbox Challenge (the latter has been offline since 2015, however materials can still be found from web archives).[15]

Application
See also: Virtual assistant

Aeromexico airline chatbot running on Facebook Messenger, March 2018
Messaging apps
Many companies' chatbots run on messaging apps or simply via SMS. They are used for B2C customer service, sales and marketing.[16]

In 2016, Facebook Messenger allowed developers to place chatbots on their platform. There were 30,000 bots created for Messenger in the first six months, rising to 100,000 by September 2017. [17]

Since September 2017, this has also been as part of a pilot program on WhatsApp. Airlines KLM and Aeroméxico both announced their participation in the testing;[18][19][20][21] both airlines had previously launched customer services on the Facebook Messenger platform.

The bots usually appear as one of the user's contacts, but can sometimes act as participants in a group chat.

Many banks, insurers, media companies, e-commerce companies, airlines, hotel chains, retailers, health care providers, government entities and restaurant chains have used chatbots to answer simple questions, increase customer engagement,[22] for promotion, and to offer additional ways to order from them.[23][24]

A 2017 study showed 4% of companies used chatbots.[25] According to a 2016 study, 80% of businesses said they intended to have one by 2020.[26]

As part of company apps and websites
Previous generations of chatbots were present on company websites, e.g. Ask Jenn from Alaska Airlines which debuted in 2008[27] or Expedia's virtual customer service agent which launched in 2011.[27][28] The newer generation of chatbots includes IBM Watson-powered "Rocky", introduced in February 2017 by the New York City-based e-commerce company Rare Carat to provide information to prospective diamond buyers.[29][30]

Company internal platforms
Other companies explore ways they can use chatbots internally, for example for Customer Support, Human Resources, or even in Internet-of-Things (IoT) projects. Overstock.com, for one, has reportedly launched a chatbot named Mila to automate certain simple yet time-consuming processes when requesting for a sick leave.[31] Other large companies such as Lloyds Banking Group, Royal Bank of Scotland, Renault and Citroën are now using automated online assistants instead of call centres with humans to provide a first point of contact. A SaaS chatbot business ecosystem has been steadily growing since the F8 Conference when Facebook's Mark Zuckerberg unveiled that Messenger would allow chatbots into the app.[32] In large companies, like in hospitals and aviation organizations, IT architects are designing reference architectures for Intelligent Chatbots that are used to unlock and share knowledge and experience in the organization more efficiently, and reduce the errors in answers from expert service desks significantly.[33] These Intelligent Chatbots make use of all kinds of artificial intelligence like image moderation and natural language understanding (NLU), natural language generation (NLG), machine learning and deep learning.

Banking
Nowadays a high majority of high-tech banking organizations are looking for integration of automated AI-based solutions such as chatbots in their customer service in order to provide faster and cheaper assistance to their clients becoming increasingly technodexterous. In particularly, chatbots can efficiently conduct a dialogue, usually substituting other communication tools such as email, phone, or SMS. In banking area their major application is related to quick customer service answering common requests, and transactional support.

Several studies accomplished by analytics agencies such as Juniper or Gartner [34] report significant reduction of cost of customer services, leading to billions of dollars of economy in the next 10 years. Gartner predicts an integration by 2020 of chatbots in at least 85% of all client's applications to customer service. Juniper's study announces an impressive amount of $8 billion retained annually by 2022 due to the use of chatbots.

Since 2016 when Facebook allows businesses to deliver automated customer support, e-commerce guidance, content and interactive experiences through chatbots, a large variety of chatbots for Facebook Messenger platform were developed.[35] In 2016, Russia-based Tochka Bank launched the world's first Facebook bot for a range of financial services, in particularly including a possibility of making payments. [36] In July 2016, Barclays Africa also launched a Facebook chatbot, making it the first bank to do so in Africa. [37]

The France's third largest bank by total assets [38] Societe Generale launched their chatbot called SoBot in March 2018. While the 80% of users of the SoBot express their satisfaction after having tested it, il will never remplace the expertise provided by a human advisor according to SG deputy director Bertrand Cozzarolo. [39]

There are several potential advantages of using chatbots in interaction with customer in banking:[40]

Cost reduction. Chatbots eliminate the obligation of any human presence during online interaction and are so long seen as a huge advantage by companies operating with multiple repetitive queries at once as long as they don't require any decision-making procedure.[41]
Human touch. Chatbots, providing an interface similar to human-to-human interaction, are more intuitive and so less difficult to use than a standard banking mobile application. They doesn't require any additional software installation and are more adaptive as able to be personalized during the exploitation by the means of machine learning. Chatbots are instant and so much faster that phone calls, shown to be considered as tedious in some studies. Then they satisfy both speed and personalization requirement while interacting with a bank.
Financial advice. State-of-the-art banking assistants can, by accessing personal customer's data such as consumer behavior or history of purchases, provide useful information on client's account and use it to develop AI-Based recommendations for better adapted money management.
Attracting new clients. A chatbot greeting a bank's website guest can provide some useful and relevant information, helping to exploit the offered products and services in a personalized manner helps to attract the potential client and the he is more likely to end by creation of a new account.[40]
24/7 digital support. An instant and always accessible assistant is assumed by the more and more digital consumer of the new era.[34] Unlike humans, chatbots once developed and installed don't have a limited workdays, holidays or weekends and are ready to attend queries at any hour of the day. It helps to the customer to avoid waiting of a company's agent to be available. Thus, the customer doesn't have to wait for the company executive to help them. This also lets companies keep an eye on the traffic during the non-working hours and reach out to them later.[41]
Toys
Chatbots have also been incorporated into devices not primarily meant for computing such as toys.[42]

Hello Barbie is an Internet-connected version of the doll that uses a chatbot provided by the company ToyTalk,[43] which previously used the chatbot for a range of smartphone-based characters for children.[44] These characters' behaviors are constrained by a set of rules that in effect emulate a particular character and produce a storyline.[45]

IBM's Watson computer has been used as the basis for chatbot-based educational toys for companies such as CogniToys[42] intended to interact with children for educational purposes.[46]

Chat-bots In Support Automation

Chatbots like Morph.ai, Haptik, Yekaliva[47] are used in business website for providing support. It helps by answering FAQ's in the first level.

Chatbots in Medicine and for Mental Health
According to the Journal of Medical Internet Research, "Chatbots are [...] increasingly used in particular for mental health applications, prevention and behavior change applications (such as smoking cessation or physical activity interventions).".[48] They have been shown to serve as a cost-effective and accessible therapeutic agents for indications such as depression and anxiety.[49] A conversational agent called Woebot has been shown to significantly reduce depression in young adults.[50]

Chatbot development platforms
The process of building, testing and deploying chatbots can be done on cloud-based chatbot development platforms[51] offered by cloud Platform as a Service (PaaS) providers such as Oracle Cloud Platform Yekaliva[47][28] and IBM Watson.[52][53][54] These cloud platforms provide Natural Language Processing, Artificial Intelligence and Mobile Backend as a Service for chatbot development.

API

Some Companies like Microsoft Azure and AARC are currently providing their Bot Engines through which chatbot Platforms or Software can be developed

Malicious use
Malicious chatbots are frequently used to fill chat rooms with spam and advertisements, by mimicking human behavior and conversations or to entice people into revealing personal information, such as bank account numbers. They are commonly found on Yahoo! Messenger, Windows Live Messenger, AOL Instant Messenger and other instant messaging protocols. There has also been a published report of a chatbot used in a fake personal ad on a dating service's website.[55]

Tay, an AI chatbot that learns from previous interaction, caused major controversy due to it being targeted by internet trolls on Twitter. The bot was exploited, and after 16 hours began to send extremely offensive Tweets to users. This suggests that although the bot learnt effectively from experience, adequate protection was not put in place to prevent misuse.[56]

Examples of malicious uses for Chatbots
Disruption of emergency and support services : 
There have been cases of messages sent by people in danger in order to be saved. Those texts when received can require important means, both financial and human.[57] Such texts could be invented by malicious actors to confound and disturb emergency services for a large array of purposes, including terrorist ones.

Bullying and harassment : 
Chatbots could be used as weapons on the social networks such as Twitter or Facebook. An entity or individuals could design create a countless number of chatbots to harass people. They could even try to track how successful their harassment is by using machine-learning-based methods to sharpen their strategies and counteract harassment detection tools.

Spreading misinformation : 
If a text-sending algorithm can pass itself off as a human instead of a chatbot, its message would be more credible. Therefore, human-seeming chatbots with well-crafted online identities could start scattering fake news that seem plausible, for instance making false claims during a presidential election. With enough chatbots, it might be even possible to achieve artificial social proof.[58][59]

Limitations of Chatbots
The creation and implementation of chatbots is still a developing area, heavily related to artificial intelligence and machine learning, so the provided solutions, while possessing obvious advantages, have some important limitations in terms of functionalities and use cases. However this is changing over time.

The most common ones are listed below:[60]

As the database, used for output generation, is fixed and limited, chatbots can fail while dealing with an unsaved query.[41]
Chatbot's efficiency highly depends on language processing and is limited because of irregularities, such as accents and mistakes that can create an important barrier for international and multi-cultural organisations [61]
Chatbots are unable to deal with multiple questions at the same time and so conversation opportunities are limited.[60]
As it happens usually with technology-led changes in existing services, some consumers, more often than not from the old generation, are uncomfortable with chatbots due to their limited understanding, making it obvious that their requests are being dealt machines.[60]
Chatbots killing jobs
Chatbots are predicted to be progressively present in businesses and will automate tasks that do not require skill-based talents. Companies are getting smarter with touchpoints and customer service now comes in the form of instant messenger, as well as phone calls. IBM recently predicted that 85% of customer service enquiries will be handled by AI as early as 2020.[62] The call centre workers may be particularly at risk from AI.[63]

A study by Forrester (June 2017) predicts that 25% of today's jobs will most likely be impacted by AI technologies by 2019.[64]

See also
Applications of artificial intelligence
Eugene Goostman
Interactive online characters
Social bot
Twitterbot
List of chatterbots
Citations
 "What is a chatbot?". techtarget.com. Retrieved 30 January 2017.
 Mauldin 1994
 Orf, Darren. "Google Assistant Is a Mega AI Bot That Wants To Be Absoutely Everywhere".
 "The 8 best chatbots of 2016". 21 December 2016.
 "2017 Messenger Bot Landscape, a Public Spreadsheet Gathering 1000+ Messenger Bots". 3 May 2017.
 https://georgianpartners.com/investment-thesis-areas/overview-conversational-ai/
 (Turing 1950)
 (Weizenbaum 1966, p. 36)
 (Weizenbaum 1966, pp. 44–5)
 GüzeldereFranchi 1995
 Computer History Museum 2006
 Sondheim 1997
 Network Working Group 1973—Transcript of a session between Parry and Eliza. (This is not the dialogue from the ICCC, which took place October 24–26, 1972, whereas this session is from September 18, 1972.)
 www.everything.com 13 November 1999
 ‹See Tfd›(in German) Chatroboter simulieren Menschen
 Beaver, Laurie (July 2016). The Chatbots Explainer. BI Intelligence.
 "Facebook Messenger Hits 100,000 bots". 2017-04-18. Retrieved 2017-09-22.
 "KLM claims airline first with WhatsApp Business Platform".
 Staff, Forbes (26 October 2017). "Aeroméxico te atenderá por WhatsApp durante 2018". Retrieved 2 July 2018.
 Redacción (27 October 2017). "Podrás hacer 'check in' y consultar tu vuelo con Aeroméxico a través de WhatsApp". Huffington Post. Retrieved 2 July 2018 – via Huff Post.
 "Building for People, and Now Businesses". WhatsApp.com. Retrieved 2 July 2018.
 "She is the company's most effective employee". Nordea News.
 "Better believe the bot boom is blowing up big for B2B, B2C businesses". VentureBeat. 2016-07-24.
 "Chatbots Take Education To the Next Level – Chatbot News Daily". Chatbot News Daily. 2016-09-29. Retrieved 2017-06-23.
 "The AI Revolution is Underway! – PM360". www.pm360online.com. Retrieved 2 July 2018.
 "80% of businesses want chatbots by 2020". Retrieved 2 July 2018.
 "A Virtual Travel Agent With All the Answers". The New York Times. 4 March 2008.
 "Chatbot vendor directory released –". www.hypergridbusiness.com.
 "Rare Carat's Watson-powered chatbot will help you put a diamond ring on it". TechCrunch. February 15, 2017.
 "10 ways you may have already used IBM Watson". VentureBeat. March 10, 2017.
 Greenfield, Rebecca. "Chatbots Are Your Newest, Dumbest Co-Workers". Bloomberg.
 "Facebook opens its Messenger platform to chatbots". 12 April 2016.
 "Chatbot Reference Architecture". 1 January 2019.
 "HOW CHATBOTS ARE TRANSFORMING WALL STREET AND MAIN STREET BANKS?". 1 April 2019.
 "Facebook launches Messenger platrofm with chatbots". 1 April 2019.
 "Российский банк запустил чат-бота в Facebook". 1 April 2019.
 "Absa launches 'world-first' Facebook Messenger banking". 1 April 2019.
 "The Biggest French Banks by Total Assets". Banks around the World. Retrieved April 1, 2019.
 "GAGNER DU TEMPS AVEC LE CHATBOT BANCAIRE POUR GAGNER EN INTELLIGENCE AVEC LES CONSEILLERS". Marketing Client. Retrieved April 1, 2019.
 "Meet 11 of the Most Interesting Chatbots in Banking". The Financial Brain. Retrieved April 1, 2019.
 "CHATBOTS: BOON OR BANE?". bluelupin. Retrieved April 1, 2019.
 Amy (2015-02-23). "Conversational Toys – The Latest Trend in Speech Technology". Virtual Agent Chat. Retrieved 2016-08-11.
 NAGY, EVIE. "USING TOYTALK TECHNOLOGY, NEW HELLO BARBIE WILL HAVE REAL CONVERSATIONS WITH KIDS". Fast Company. Retrieved 18 March 2015.
 Oren Jacob, the co-founder and CEO of ToyTalk interviewed on the TV show Triangulation on the TWiT.tv network
 "Artificial intelligence script tool".
 Takahashi, Dean. "Elemental's smart connected toy taps IBM's Watson supercomputer for its brains". Venture Beat. Retrieved 15 May 2015.
 "Top 60 chatbots".
 "JMIR e-collection "Chatbots and Conversational Agents in Health and Medicine"". Journal of Medical Internet Research. JMIR Publications.
 Fulmer, R; Joerin, A; Gentile, B; Lakerink, L; Rauws, M (13 December 2018). "Using Psychological Artificial Intelligence (Tess) to Relieve Symptoms of Depression and Anxiety: Randomized Controlled Trial". JMIR Mental Health. 5 (4): e64. doi:10.2196/mental.9782. PMC 6315222. PMID 30545815.
 Fitzpatrick, KK; Darcy, A; Vierhile, M (6 June 2017). "Delivering Cognitive Behavior Therapy to Young Adults With Symptoms of Depression and Anxiety Using a Fully Automated Conversational Agent (Woebot): A Randomized Controlled Trial". JMIR Mental Health. 4 (2): e19. doi:10.2196/mental.7785. PMC 5478797. PMID 28588005.
 Yuan, Michael (2018-02-19). Chatbots: Building Intelligent, Cross-Platform, Messaging Bots. Pearson Education. ISBN 9780134650616.
 "Oracle launches a chatbot development platform | VentureBeat". venturebeat.com. Retrieved 2017-11-15.
 "Oracle Introduces AI-Powered Intelligent Bots to Help Enterprises Engage Customers and Employees". www.oracle.com. Retrieved 2017-11-15.
 "Mobile Service | Oracle Cloud". cloud.oracle.com. Retrieved 2017-11-15.
 "From Russia With Love" (PDF). Retrieved 2007-12-09. Psychologist and Scientific American: Mind contributing editor Robert Epstein reports how he was initially fooled by a chatterbot posing as an attractive girl in a personal ad he answered on a dating website. In the ad, the girl portrayed herself as being in Southern California and then soon revealed, in poor English, that she was actually in Russia. He became suspicious after a couple of months of email exchanges, sent her an email test of gibberish, and she still replied in general terms. The dating website is not named. Scientific American: Mind, October–November 2007, page 16–17, "From Russia With Love: How I got fooled (and somewhat humiliated) by a computer". Also available online.
 Bird, Jordan J.; Ekart, Aniko; Faria, Diego R. (June 2018). Advances in Computational Intelligence Systems (1st ed.). Nottingham, UK: Springer. pp. 179–190. ISBN 978-3-319-97982-3. Retrieved 3 December 2018.
 "An Afghan kid saved thanks to a message he sent". Retrieved 2016-04-08.
 "Fake News". Retrieved 2018-11-20.
 "Malicious uses". Retrieved 2016-05-11.
 "Meet 11 of the Most Interesting Chatbots in Banking". Retrieved 2019-04-01.
 "Why chatbots fail (and why natural languages are hard)". Retrieved 2019-04-01.
 "Artificial Intelligence Will Kill These Jobs (And #5 Has Nobody Else To Blame)". Retrieved 2019-04-01.
 "How talking machines are taking call centre jobs". Retrieved 2019-04-01.
 "How chatbots are killing jobs (and creating new ones)". June 2017. Retrieved 2019-04-01.
References
Computer History Museum (2006), "Internet History—1970's", Exhibits, Computer History Museum, archived from the original on 2008-02-21, retrieved 2008-03-05
Güzeldere, Güven; Franchi, Stefano (1995-07-24), "Constructions of the Mind", Stanford Humanities Review, SEHR, Stanford University, 4 (2), retrieved 2008-03-05
Mauldin, Michael (1994), "ChatterBots, TinyMuds, and the Turing Test: Entering the Loebner Prize Competition", Proceedings of the Eleventh National Conference on Artificial Intelligence, AAAI Press, retrieved 2008-03-05 (abstract)
Network Working Group (1973), "RFC 439, PARRY Encounters the DOCTOR", Internet Engineering Task Force, Internet Society, retrieved 2008-03-05
Sondheim, Alan J (1997), <nettime> Important Documents from the Early Internet (1972), nettime.org, archived from the original on 2008-06-13, retrieved 2008-03-05
Searle, John (1980), "Minds, Brains and Programs", Behavioral and Brain Sciences, 3 (3): 417–457, doi:10.1017/S0140525X00005756
Shevat, Amir (2017). Designing bots: Creating conversational experiences (First ed.). Sebastopol, CA: O'Reilly Media. ISBN 9781491974827. OCLC 962125282.
Turing, Alan (1950), "Computing Machinery and Intelligence", Mind, 59 (236): 433–60, doi:10.1093/mind/lix.236.433
Weizenbaum, Joseph (January 1966), "ELIZA—A Computer Program For the Study of Natural Language Communication Between Man And Machine", Communications of the ACM, 9 (1): 36–45, doi:10.1145/365153.365168
vte
Natural language processing
Globe of letters.svgLanguage portal
Categories: ChatterbotsInstant messagingInteractive narrativeNatural language parsing
Navigation menu
Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog inArticleTalkReadEditView historySearch
Search Wikipedia
Main page
Contents
Featured content
Current events
Random article
Donate to Wikipedia
Wikipedia store
Interaction
Help
About Wikipedia
Community portal
Recent changes
Contact page
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Upload file
Special pages
Permanent link
Page information
Wikidata item
Cite this page
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
Wikibooks
Print/export
Create a book
Download as PDF
Printable version

Languages
العربية
বাংলা
Español
Français
Bahasa Indonesia
Português
Русский
தமிழ்
中文     
